Deprecates exporting prerender with dynamic values (#11657)
withastro/astro: .changeset/eleven-pens-glow.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> Deprecates exporting `prerender` with dynamic values. Only static values are supported by default. This allows for better treeshaking and bundling configuration in the future.
> 
> To migrate, use an integration with the `"astro:route:setup"` hook and update the route's `prerender` option:

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
Deprecates the option for route-generating files to export a dynamic value for `prerender`. Only static values are now supported (e.g. `export const prerender = true` or `= false`). This allows for better treeshaking and bundling configuration in the future.

Adds a new `"astro:route:setup"` hook to the Integrations API to allow you to dynamically set options for a route at build or request time through an integration, such as enabling [on-demand server rendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#opting-in-to-pre-rendering-in-server-mode).

To migrate from a dynamic export to the new hook, update or remove any dynamic `prerender` exports from individual routing files:

```diff
// src/pages/blog/[slug].astro
- export const prerender = ????

```

Instead, create an integration with the `"astro:route:setup"` hook and update the route's `prerender` option:
``````

OK, so I'll need you to fill in the technical details, since I'm not sure what the dynamic export would look like, but how about something in this style?

Author: Looks good 👍 I updated your comment for the previous dynamic export style.

---
'astro': minor
---

Deprecates the option for route-generating files to export a dynamic value for `prerender`. Only static values are now supported (e.g. `export const prerender = true` or `= false`). This allows for better treeshaking and bundling configuration in the future.

> Adds a new `"astro:route:setup"` hook to the Integrations API to allow you to dynamically set options for a route at build or request time through an integration, such as enabling [on-demand server rendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#opting-in-to-pre-rendering-in-server-mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a new [`"astro:route:setup"` hook](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/integrations-reference/#astroroutesetup) to the Integrations API to allow you to dynamically set options for a route at build or request time through an integration, such as enabling [on-demand server rendering](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#opting-in-to-pre-rendering-in-server-mode).
```
Just adding a link to the new hook where it will be in docs!
